# Methods: snRNA-seq data preprocessing
Gene count matrices were obtained for each multiplexed pool by aligning reads to the GRCh38 human genome using CellRanger (v8.0.1, 10x Genomics), allowing mapping to intronic regions. We next performed ambient RNA detection and correction using CellBender (CITATION), using the default settings and 150 training epochs. This generated a gene count matrix with ambient RNA-corrected counts. We then utilized Demuxafy (CITATION), a singularity container wrapping softwares used for doublet detection and genotype-based demultiplexing. To demultiplex the pools, we used Demuxalot (CITATION) and Cellsnp-lite/Vireo (CITATION), and for general doublet detection, we used DoubletDetection (CITATION), scDblFinder (CITATION), and scds (CITATION). Note that demultiplexing and doublet detection were run on the CellRanger filtered feature matrices, not the CellBender corrected counts matrices. For unifying results from CellBender and the five Demuxafy softwares, we filtered cells using the following criteria:

1. Any droplet which CellBender called as ambient (>50% chance) was removed. 
2. Any cell which was identified as a doublet or unassigned by either Demuxalot or Cellsnp-lite/Vireo (i.e., heterogenic doublets) was removed.
3. Any cell for which Demuxalot and Cellsnp-lite/Vireo did not agree on donor assignment was removed.
4. Of the remaining cells, cells were retained which at least two of the three general doublet detection softwares (DoubletDetection, scDblFinder, and scds) called as singlets.

At the sample level, we removed any sample (donor x brain region) which had less than 400 cells. There were also 6 cases where the same donor was included twice in the same pool, making it impossible to tell which brain region the samples came from; these samples were all removed. Additionally, we performed filtering with cell-level metadata (cell-level metadata was aggregated using the CellRanger raw gene counts). We removed cells in the top 2.5% by number of reads (>43,277), cells in the bottom 2.5% by number of unique genes expressed (<1,333), and cells which had more than 2% mitochondrial or ribosomal reads. This resulted in a total of 2,197,178 cells from 97 donors across 5 brain regions which passed all QC.
